# Rent_Prediction
This project aims at predicting the number of bike rentals on given seasonal and environmental features. Achieved a 90% accuracy using Linear Regression with Temperature Type, Day type, Season being the important predicting parameters.
1.1 Problem Statement:
The objective is to forecast bike rental demand of Bike sharing program in Washington, D.C based on historical usage patterns in relation with weather, environment and other data. We would be interested in predicting the rentals on various factors including season, temperature, weather and building a model that can successfully predict the number of rentals on relevant factors.

1.2 Data
This dataset contains the seasonal and weekly count of rental bikes between years 2011 and 2012 in Capital bikeshare system with the corresponding temperature and humidity information. Bike sharing systems are a new way of traditional bike rentals. The wohle process from memberhsip to rental and retrun back has become automatic. The data was generated by 500 bike-sharing programs and was collected by the Laboratory of Artificial Intelligence and Decision Support (LIAAD), University of Porto. Given below is the description of the data which is a (731, 16) shaped data, The variables are:

weathersit:
1: Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy,
2: Mist and Cloudy, Mist and Broken clouds, Mist and Few clouds, Mist
3: Light Snow, Light Rain and Thunderstorm and Scattered clouds, Light Rain an Scattered clouds
4: Heavy Rain and Ice Pallets and Thunderstorm and Mist, Snow and Fog
instant: record index
dteday: date
season: season (1:spring, 2:summer, 3:fall, 4:winter)
yr: year (0: 2011, 1:2012)
mnth: month ( 1 to 12)
holiday: weather day is holiday or not (extracted from http://dchr.dc.gov/page/holiday-schedule)
weekday: day of the week
workingday: if day is neither weekend nor holiday is 1, otherwise is 0.
temp: Normalized temperature in Celsius. The values are divided to 41 (max)
atemp: Normalized feeling temperature in Celsius. The values are divided to 50 (max)
hum: Normalized humidity. The values are divided to 100 (max)
windspeed: Normalized wind speed. The values are divided to 67 (max)
casual: count of casual users
registered: count of registered users
cnt: count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered

I have used a combination of regression methods and several hypothesis testing to validate relevant features for the model.
The model achieved 90% Accuracy in prediction using Linear Regression.
